Deprecating the Octo CLI blog post (#1091)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2023-11/deprecating-octo-cli/index.md

---
title: Deprecating the Octo CLI
description: Octopus Deploy will drop support for the Octo CLI
author: eddy.moulton@octopus.com
visibility: public
published: 2023-11-21-1400
metaImage:
bannerImage:
bannerImageAlt: 125 characters max, describes image to people unable to see it.
isFeatured: false
tags:
  - Product
---

Late last year we announced our new and improved Octopus command-line interface (CLI). You can read more about how and why we built it in [John's blog post](https://octopus.com/blog/building-octopus-cli-vnext).

It's now time to retire the Octo CLI. In this post I'll explain why we're deprecating it and what you need to know for your integrations.

## What's wrong with the Octopus CLI (octo)

> John says it best in his [state of the Octopus CLI](https://octopus.com/blog/building-octopus-cli-vnext) section from his blog post. The bottom line is that it has served it's time and we'll no longer be providing feature or security updates to the Octo CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
John says it best in his [state of the Octopus CLI](https://octopus.com/blog/building-octopus-cli-vnext) section from his blog post. The bottom line is that it's limitations have required us to rebuild a cli for more modern workflows. As such we will no longer be providing feature or security updates to the Octo CLI.
```

Reviewer: Just a little less feeling of "its crap and old" :)

## What's new in the Octopus CLI

Since the announcement last year we've been busy adding features to the CLI. Take a look at the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/cli/releases) for a timeline of changes or skip straight to the [docs](https://octopus.com/docs/octopus-rest-api/cli) to see everything you can currently do with the CLI.

## What to expect next

We don't yet have a hard date set to remove the Octo CLI, but rest assured that it will not be a surprise.

We intend to surface deprecation warnings within both the CLI tool and Octopus portal at least 12 months before it's removal.

## Migrating from the Octo CLI

The new Octopus CLI was not designed as a drop in replacement, but most of the functionality provided by the Octo CLI is now supported. We recommend making the swap to the new Octopus CLI as soon as practical to enjoy new improvements as early as possible.

> If you currently rely on functionality that does not have an equivalent in the new CLI then please create an [issue](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/cli/issues) on our GitHub repository or reach out in our [community Slack](https://oc.to/CommunitySlack).

Reviewer: Maybe another line pointing out that as we move our focus to the new cli tool the old tool wont just suddenly stop working.
The API surface area that it interacts with is unlikely to change in a dramatic way in the forseeable future and so any existing pipelines, workflows or processes that make use of the original CLi should continue to work as has previously been the case for existing Octopus functionality. Obviously though any new functionality that is added to Octopus Server will be unlikely to be surfaced through the tool and in those cases customers should instead move to using the new cli tool.

## What to expect next

We haven't set a hard date to remove the Octo CLI, but it won't be a surprise. 

We intend to surface deprecation warnings in both the CLI tool and the Octopus portal at least 12 months before it's removal.

## Migrating from the Octo CLI

The new Octopus CLI wasn't designed as a drop in replacement, but most of the functionality provided by the Octo CLI is now supported.

Our public APIs are unlikely to undergo any large changes, so the Octo CLI will continue to work in your existing workflows for the foreseeable future. We recommend making the swap to the new Octopus CLI as soon as practical to enjoy new improvements as they become available.

If you currently rely on functionality that doesn't have an equivalent in the new CLI, please either:

- Create an [issue in our GitHub repository](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/cli/issues)
- Reach out in our [Community Slack](https://oc.to/CommunitySlack)

## Conclusion

The Octo CLI has served us well for many years, but it's almost time to say goodbye.

> We want to continue making a CLI that customers love to use, so we'd be grateful for any feedback or suggestions through any of our channels.

Reviewer 2: @EddyMoulton it would be good to be more specific about how to provide feedback here. Perhaps we can add something like the sentence below. Can you please just confirm who customers can email about this? Should it be the customer success team?

You can leave a comment below, contact us on [Community Slack](https://oc.to/CommunitySlack), or email our [customer success team](mailto:customersuccess@octopus.com).

Author: @TeganAli I was thinking along the lines of either slack or the github repository issues that are linked in the paragraph above. Felt a bit weird linking them again immediately.

Do you know if the comments on blog posts are monitored?

Reviewer 2: @EddyMoulton I think it's fine to link again, to be clear about how to provide feedback.

We have a Slack channel that's a feed of comments posted to Disqus from our blog (#feed-blog-comments). I monitor that channel and will let you know if we receive a comment there (but also fine if it's not the right place for this kind of feedback).

Author: Fantastic, that's great to know.

I've added a tweaked version of your suggestion - feel free to adjust if I've manage to butcher it :sweat_smile:

Reviewer 2: It sounds great. Thank you so much for updating that.
